---
title: "Ideas"
date: 2018-02-17T15:27:08-05:00
draft: true
---


# Isozymes

Okay, why PYK2, HXK1, PYC2(or1?), tif4632, ANB1 ? Why have isozymes
that are only expressed in slow growth conditions?

Gasch: 
"
One notable feature of the ESR was the differential expression
of isozymes. For example, various enzymes involved in carbon
metabolism, protein folding, and defense against reactive oxygen
species were specifically induced in the ESR, while their counterparts
were not (Figure 5). This result confirms and expands previous
observations that isozymes involved in carbohydrate metabolism are
differentially expressed in response to osmotic shock (Norbeck and
Blomberg, 1997; Rep et al., 2000). One possible explanation for this
divergence in regulation is that the putative isozymes might possess
different properties, including biochemical function, substrate
specificity, and physical location, that make one isozyme optimized to
the ESR and the other to more specific conditions. Alternatively, the
existence of differentially-regulated isozymes possessing similar
properties might allow ESR isozymes to be regulated as part of this
more general program, while their related counterparts are regulated
by specialized signals.

Fig. 5.

Differentially regulated isozymes in the ESR. The expression of genes
encoding differentially regulated isozymes is shown. Isozymes
regulated in the ESR are labeled in purple. Color scale and array
identification are shown."

