---
title: "Science_hypothetically"
date: 2018-01-28
draft: true
---

http://clinchem.aaccjnls.org/content/56/7/1080

Lab mate linked out to this. I think it was useful.

The author successfully identifies that there are least two phases to
scientific work: that of exploration and testing. But the author holds
a degree of contempt for the term "hypothesis", and certainly has an
axe to grind. While it is important to have a sharp axe, the late UK
LeGuin and Lao Tzu remind us: "Keep sharpening the blade, you'll soon
blunt it".

Their schematic for the question/model method is easily represented by
the language of hypothesis testing. While there is often value to
changing the language used to describe a concept, sometimes it is more
practical to translate the idea into the words that the audience
already knows --- ie hypothesis generation and verification.

I think the only useful distinction between the two terms "model" and
"hypothesis" is in slang-usage to refer to the complexity of the
representation. "Does it have lots of math? Then it is a model. "Else,
they are pretty much interchangeable as far as I understand.

While the power of a very explicit and complex model/hypothesisis
useful, it limits science simply because it cannot be communicated
quite as easily. A hypotheses usually can, using the power of
technical terms to nest the complexity and allow a researcher in the
field to think agily about the hypothesis. Hypotheses testing should
be respected both as a practical means of verification, but also as a
means of canalyzing thought towards a meaningful and generalizable
result. Similarly, modeling is a means of focusing thought to the
specifics of experimental design.

If the phenomena can only be captured by a black box model, then is
that of use to science? Humans generalize hypotheses/models, not
computers (yet), and so it is essential that science loop back to
contributing generated or verified hypotheses to other humans, to
continue the loops.

They are right to call for funding and recognition for Step 1
(generation), but wrong to condemn Step 2 (verification). Both are
essential components of the flow (and training) of science. They need
not be taking place in the same field, lab, or skull, but they are
part of the ecosystem of human scientific procedure.

In my opinion the author has narrowed the point of the argument to its
true claims, and in the process whittled down to a definition of model
which I do not think is meaningfully separable from hypotheses (in
terms of scientific communication). And, it's always a pleasure to
hear arguments and think more explicitly about these kinds of things,
and I'm certainly glad Glass shared (in English) their well-thought
thoughts.


https://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/04/model-interpretability-neural-networks-deep-learning.html
